[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's talk a little
bit about the formalities of what
classes imply for us.
And let's kind of give some specificity
to why JavaScript isn't working the way
that we thought it should work.
In classical inheritance,
we have a parent class that we call foo.
And when we instantiate foo and
we create an a1 instance of foo,
there is a copy of behavior from
the parent class into the child.
And there's another copy that happens
when foo gets copied into a2.
And when we create a child class called
bar we're copying the behavior from foo
down to bar and
then another copy into bar's instances.
This is not only a physical thing in
terms of what the compiler is doing, but
this is the most common way that
metaphorically we explain how classes
work, if any of you ever took
computer science classes or whatever.
If you were ever taught, you were probably
given the metaphor of the blueprints.
The class represents the blueprints for
some building, and
then, so you have an architect
that lays out the blueprints, but
you have a builder than comes along and
builds your building.
Well, the builder is copying
the characteristics from the plans into
the physical building.
Once the physical building is built,
there's no more relationship
to the original plans.
It's not like they're linked or
tied in some way.
It was a copy.
So we can go back to biology and
we can talk about parents and children.
And when my child inherits my DNA,
they get a copy of my DNA.
There's no linkage.
When my son breaks his leg,
I don't break my leg.
There's no linkage between the two
because everything about inheritance,
the word inheritance means copy.
Okay?
So, if the mechanism in
JavaScript doesn't do copying,
that's why I think it's wrong
to call it inheritance.
Cuz we're using a word in the wrong way.
Now, there are some people that
call this prototypal inheritance.
There are some people that say
JavaScript doesn't have inheritance,
what it has is prototypal inheritance.
In other words, we stick the word
prototypal in front of the word
inheritance, and somehow magically,
we've divorced ourself from the fact
that inheritance means
something very different.
To me, that's like me holding up an apple
in one hand and an orange in the other
hand and saying, no, no, no, that's
not an apple, it's just a red orange.
You would look at me and
say, that's ludicrous.
Just because you put the word red in
front of it doesn't make it an orange.
Or doesn't make it not an apple.
It intrinsically is something based upon
its characteristics, and what you call it,
you can call it what it is or you can
call it something else and confuse me.
But what you call it
doesn't change what it is.
So in my opinion,
inheritance means something.
And we can't just put the word
prototypal in front of it and
make it mean something else.
And not just something else,
something completely opposite,
is what I'm about to illustrate.
Okay?
So in JavaScript, the way things work,
this is called prototypal inheritance.
In JavaScript we have an object,
it's arbitrarily labeled Foo.prototype and
when we create the a1 object, you notice
that the arrow now goes in the opposite
direction, cuz it wasn't a copy at all.
It was a behavior link.
It was a delegation link.
So a1 is linked to foo.prototype, and
a2 is linked to foo.prototype, and
Bar.prototype is linked, and b1 and b2.
The arrows go from right to left,
and bottom to top,
which is the complete opposite
of the previous slide.
These mechanisms are fundamentally,
in their very intrinsic DNA,
they are opposite of each other.
One of them is a copy down,
one of them is a delegation up the chain.
And what we've been trying to do for 20
years is make a mechanism that works like
this pretend like it's a mechanism
from the previous slide.
And we've been doing all kinds of things.
You've heard of the mix in pattern, which
manually copies things from one prototype
to another and
all manner of different variations on it.
I could spend hours and hours talking
about all the different variations.
100% of that is an attempt to make
something that works like this
look like it works like
the previous slide.
So we're doing all of this work,
and I think it's just
hiding the fact that we could look at
a mechanism that works like that and
see how we could take advantage
of that mechanism itself.
Because that mechanism
has a lot of power to it.
[COUGH] This is another
design pattern by the way.
And that design pattern is
called behavior delegation.
So rather than saying that JavaScript has
inheritance or prototypal inheritance or
whatever other type of silly
label you want to put on it,
I think it's more important to say that
JavaScript has behavior delegation, and
that's a design pattern
we can adopt in our code.
Remember this code before
when we say a1.speak?
I've already used this word before but
when a1 is able to call speak,
you notice the way that
the mechanism works.
It wasn't because a1 got a copy of speak.
The reason a1 was able to call
speak is cuz he was able to
delegate up to a different object
that had a speak method on it.
It's a completely different mechanism
than what happens with classes.